3 types of tissue systems	ground, vascular, and dermal
Abscisic acid	Inhibits cell growth, "baby-sitting" hormone.
Auxin	Stem elongation, gravitropism, phototropism
C4 plants	These types of plants contain bundle sheath cells, which assist in respiration in hot and dry regions.
Casparian Strip	Blocks the flow of water in the root and are in between endodermis cells,; made of suberin
Collenchyma	live cells that provide flexible and mechanical support; found in stems and leaves
Collenchyma, parenchyma, and sclerenchyma	Ground tissue is made up of..
Cork Cambium	produces protective covering that replaces epidermis during widening.
Cutin	a waxy, water-repellent substance occurring in the cuticle of plants and consisting of highly polymerized esters of fatty acids.
Cytokinins	promote cell division
Dermal Tissue	protective outer coating for plants(epidermis).
epidermis, cortex, vascular cylinder, xylem/phloem	Structure from the outermost part of the stem to the innermost
epidermis, endodermis, vascular cylinder, xylem/phloem	Structure from the outermost part of the root to the innermost
epidermis, mesophyll, vascular bundles, xylem/phloem	Structure from the outermost part of the leaf to the innermost
Ethylene	Ripens fruit and flowers
Fibrous system(monocots)	Anchoring system that does not go deep down into soil.
Florigen	Thought to assist in flowering of flowers
Gibberellins	Induce growth in dormant seeds, buds, and flowers.
Long-Day Plants	Spinach
meristem cells	Growth in plants occurs because of..
Parenchyma	Cells that play a role in storage, secretion, and photosynthesis
Phloem	transports sugar
Phytochrome	Produces florigen
Primary growth	increased length(occurs in apical meristems)
Scelerenchyma	Cells that protect seeds and support the plant.
Secondary growth	increased with(occurs in regions of lateral meristems).
Short-Day Plants	Poinsettias,Chrysanthemums
Taproot system(dicots)	System that divides into lateral roots which anchor the plant.
Vascular Cambium	gives rise to secondary xylem/phloem; runs entire length of plant.
Vascular Cylinder	composed of a collection of cells called the pericycle.(holds the vascular tissue(xylem and phloem))
Xylem	transports water and minerals
xylem and phloem	Vascular tissue is made up of...
Zone of Cell Division	cells divide
zone of elongation	cells grow longer
zone of maturation	cells mature to specialized forms(phloem, xylem, parenchyma)